README.md, before:

# FlexBook

[My Notes](notes.md)

FlexBook is a fitness tracking app that allows users to connect and share their personal progress with others. Add and customize specialized workouts and view your progress over time. Check and react to the progress of your friends. Celebrate together as everyone works towards their getting their gains.


## 🚀 Specification Deliverable

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [x] Proper use of Markdown
- [x] A concise and compelling elevator pitch
- [x] Description of key features
- [x] Description of how you will use each technology
- [x] One or more rough sketches of your application. Images must be embedded in this file using Markdown image references.

### Elevator pitch

Have you ever wanted to track your workouts and fitness goals but also those of your friends? FlexBook allows you to track your progress and track the progess of others. Each user can implement custom workouts and record their results, and then view the results of others. Once someone has reached an important milestone or recorded a personal best, they can choose to notify their friends through putting their results on their friend's feed.

### Design

Note: All of these sketches are done on a mobile phone as that is what I imagine the primary device type used would be for this type of web app, but I will design a proper web interface for a computer as well.

![Login sketch](images/Login.png)
![Workouts sketch](images/Workouts.png)
![Progress sketch](images/Progress.png)
![Reactions sketch](images/Reactions.png)



### Key features

- Secure login over HTTPS
- Add specific exercises to a custom workout plan
- Record the weight, sets, and reps completed for each exercise
- Track your progess over time
- Add friends from existing users
- View workouts of your friends
- Customize the results you share with your friends
- Add fitness goals and choose to share with your friends when you reach said goals
- React to your friends progress as they reach their goals


### Technologies

I am going to use the required technologies in the following ways.

- **HTML** - Uses correct HTML structure for application. HTML pages for login, your workouts, your reactions feed, and personal progress.
- **CSS** - Application styling that looks good on different screen sizes, uses good whitespace, color choice and contrast.
- **React** - Provides login, progresses through each workout, updates progress chart, updates reactions feed.
- **Service** - Backend service with endpoints for:
  - login
  - updating friends list
  - updating workout logs
  - updating and reacting to friends feed
  - https://github.com/cheatsnake/emojihub for emojis to react with 
  - https://wger.de/en/software/api for access to robust list of workouts
- **DB/Login** - Register, and login users. Store workouts, progress, and reactions. Credentials stored securely in database.
- **WebSocket** - When a user reacts to another user's new personal best, send a notification to the original user.

## 🚀 AWS deliverable

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [x] **Server deployed and accessible with custom domain name** - [My server link](http://flexbook.click).

## 🚀 HTML deliverable

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [x] **HTML pages** - 4 HTML pages for signing in, workouts, progress, and reactions.
- [x] **Proper HTML element usage** - BODY, NAV, MAIN, HEADER, FOOTER all used.
- [x] **Links** - All pages link to all other pages and a sign out link at the bottom of each page which links back to index.html.
- [x] **Text** - Placeholder text in workouts.html to show how an exercise is completed.
- [x] **3rd party API placeholder** - Emoji's will be supplied from https://github.com/cheatsnake/emojihub for reactions and workouts will be supplied from https://wger.de/en/software/api along with useful data on exercises.
- [x] **Images** - Bench press and graph placeholder images placed in progress.html.
- [x] **Login placeholder** - Login placeholder in index.html.
- [x] **DB data placeholder** - Log in boxes for user verification, user data (friends list, workouts, progress, reactions).
- [x] **WebSocket placeholder** - Recent reactions from your friend's represents data sent instantly from your friends.

## 🚀 CSS deliverable

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [ ] **Header, footer, and main content body** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Navigation elements** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Responsive to window resizing** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Application elements** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Application text content** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Application images** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.

## 🚀 React part 1: Routing deliverable

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [ ] **Bundled using Vite** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Components** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Router** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.

## 🚀 React part 2: Reactivity deliverable

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [ ] **All functionality implemented or mocked out** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Hooks** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.

## 🚀 Service deliverable

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [ ] **Node.js/Express HTTP service** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Static middleware for frontend** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Calls to third party endpoints** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Backend service endpoints** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Frontend calls service endpoints** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Supports registration, login, logout, and restricted endpoint** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.


## 🚀 DB deliverable

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [ ] **Stores data in MongoDB** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Stores credentials in MongoDB** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.

## 🚀 WebSocket deliverable

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [ ] **Backend listens for WebSocket connection** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Frontend makes WebSocket connection** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Data sent over WebSocket connection** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **WebSocket data displayed** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Application is fully functional** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.

Commit message:

changed image size to get it fit on page and began editing notes and readme files

README.md, after:

# FlexBook

[My Notes](notes.md)

FlexBook is a fitness tracking app that allows users to connect and share their personal progress with others. Add and customize specialized workouts and view your progress over time. Check and react to the progress of your friends. Celebrate together as everyone works towards their getting their gains.


## 🚀 Specification Deliverable

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [x] Proper use of Markdown
- [x] A concise and compelling elevator pitch
- [x] Description of key features
- [x] Description of how you will use each technology
- [x] One or more rough sketches of your application. Images must be embedded in this file using Markdown image references.

### Elevator pitch

Have you ever wanted to track your workouts and fitness goals but also those of your friends? FlexBook allows you to track your progress and track the progess of others. Each user can implement custom workouts and record their results, and then view the results of others. Once someone has reached an important milestone or recorded a personal best, they can choose to notify their friends through putting their results on their friend's feed.

### Design

Note: All of these sketches are done on a mobile phone as that is what I imagine the primary device type used would be for this type of web app, but I will design a proper web interface for a computer as well.

![Login sketch](images/Login.png)
![Workouts sketch](images/Workouts.png)
![Progress sketch](images/Progress.png)
![Reactions sketch](images/Reactions.png)



### Key features

- Secure login over HTTPS
- Add specific exercises to a custom workout plan
- Record the weight, sets, and reps completed for each exercise
- Track your progess over time
- Add friends from existing users
- View workouts of your friends
- Customize the results you share with your friends
- Add fitness goals and choose to share with your friends when you reach said goals
- React to your friends progress as they reach their goals


### Technologies

I am going to use the required technologies in the following ways.

- **HTML** - Uses correct HTML structure for application. HTML pages for login, your workouts, your reactions feed, and personal progress.
- **CSS** - Application styling that looks good on different screen sizes, uses good whitespace, color choice and contrast.
- **React** - Provides login, progresses through each workout, updates progress chart, updates reactions feed.
- **Service** - Backend service with endpoints for:
  - login
  - updating friends list
  - updating workout logs
  - updating and reacting to friends feed
  - https://github.com/cheatsnake/emojihub for emojis to react with 
  - https://wger.de/en/software/api for access to robust list of workouts
- **DB/Login** - Register, and login users. Store workouts, progress, and reactions. Credentials stored securely in database.
- **WebSocket** - When a user reacts to another user's new personal best, send a notification to the original user.

## 🚀 AWS deliverable

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [x] **Server deployed and accessible with custom domain name** - [My server link](http://flexbook.click).

## 🚀 HTML deliverable

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [x] **HTML pages** - 4 HTML pages for signing in, workouts, progress, and reactions.
- [x] **Proper HTML element usage** - BODY, NAV, MAIN, HEADER, FOOTER all used.
- [x] **Links** - All pages link to all other pages and a sign out link at the bottom of each page which links back to index.html.
- [x] **Text** - Placeholder text in workouts.html to show how an exercise is completed.
- [x] **3rd party API placeholder** - Emoji's will be supplied from https://github.com/cheatsnake/emojihub for reactions and workouts will be supplied from https://wger.de/en/software/api along with useful data on exercises.
- [x] **Images** - Bench press and graph placeholder images placed in progress.html.
- [x] **Login placeholder** - Login placeholder in index.html.
- [x] **DB data placeholder** - Log in boxes for user verification, user data (friends list, workouts, progress, reactions).
- [x] **WebSocket placeholder** - Recent reactions from your friend's represents data sent instantly from your friends.

## 🚀 CSS deliverable

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [x] **Header, footer, and main content body** - I changed the header and footer to match across all webpages and updated the designs.
- [x] **Navigation elements** - I made all navigation done through a drop down from the navbar.
- [x] **Responsive to window resizing** - My app looks great 
- [x] **Application elements** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [x] **Application text content** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [x] **Application images** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.

## 🚀 React part 1: Routing deliverable

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [ ] **Bundled using Vite** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Components** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Router** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.

## 🚀 React part 2: Reactivity deliverable

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [ ] **All functionality implemented or mocked out** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Hooks** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.

## 🚀 Service deliverable

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [ ] **Node.js/Express HTTP service** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Static middleware for frontend** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Calls to third party endpoints** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Backend service endpoints** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Frontend calls service endpoints** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Supports registration, login, logout, and restricted endpoint** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.


## 🚀 DB deliverable

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [ ] **Stores data in MongoDB** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Stores credentials in MongoDB** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.

## 🚀 WebSocket deliverable

For this deliverable I did the following. I checked the box `[x]` and added a description for things I completed.

- [ ] **Backend listens for WebSocket connection** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Frontend makes WebSocket connection** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Data sent over WebSocket connection** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **WebSocket data displayed** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
- [ ] **Application is fully functional** - I did not complete this part of the deliverable.
